

	EmPOWER Agent protocols life cycle
	

The default behavior have some minimal constrain in this version. The following
schemas resume how interaction between Agent and Controller take place.


  CONNECTION
  
A connection phase occurs between an Agent and a Controller. Multiple Agents can
be embedded in a single eNB, but still they will have one connection with only 
one controller. Connection from a single Agent to multiple Controller is not
handled in this protocol version.

During this phase the Agent first presents to the controller and, if accepted,
it gets a positive hello reply back. In case of refusing the Agent can decide to
try with another controller, or wait and try again after some time.

If Hello is successful, the controller is expected to query the Agent about the
base station capability (which also contains the number of cells in use).

        Controller                Agent
            |                       |
            |             Hello req |
            |<----------------------+ <------+
            |                       |        |
         Security                   |        |
          checks                    |     Wait or
            |                       |   change controller
            +---------------------->|        |
            | Hello reply           |        |
            |                       |      n |
            |                    Positive ---+
            |                     reply?
            |                       | y
            | eNB capability req    |
            +---------------------->|
            |                       |
            |                   Collecting
            |                  capabilities
            |                       |
            |<----------------------+
            |    eNB capability rep |
            |                       |


  KEEP ALIVE FUNCTIONALITY

Not only the Hello message role is the one to present the Agent to the 
controller, but it also plays the role of the Keep alive check. Every 
customizable millisecond (2000 by default), a message is sent to the Controller
to test that the connection is still up and working.

A controller can assume that if it does not receive any feedback from the agent,
and no Hello are sent for the setup Keep Alive period, then the connection can
be assumed to be down.

        Controller                Agent
            |                       |
            | UE Hello req          |
        Ok! +<----------------------|<------+
            |                       |       |
            |                       |       | Every 'n' ms
            |                       |       |   repeat.
            |                       |       |
            |---------------------->+ Ok! --+
            |          UE Hello rep |
            |                       |


  ENABLE/DISABLE FUNCTIONALITY
  
If the Agent reported it during capability discovery, the Controller can then
decide to enable/disable a particular functionality of the eNB/cell. 

In the following example you will see the UE report life cycle. This message is
an event of Trigger nature, which means that can occurs in any time without a 
well defined interval. When such event occurs, the agent again send a reply back
to the Controller which is formatted in a similar way of the first positive 
reply.
  
        Controller                Agent
            |                       |
            | UE report req         |
            +---------------------->|
            |                       |
            |                     Sanity
            |                     checks
            |                       |
            |<----------------------+
            |         UE report rep |
            |                       |
            |                   Timeout or
            |                  event occurs
            |                       |
            |<----------------------+
            |         UE report rep |
            |                       |
            
Generic rule here is to invoke a request with operation field set to ADD in 
order to enable a functionality, and set to REM to remove the functionality from
the system.


  ONT-TIME OPERATIONS
  
Some operation which can be issued from the Controller to the Agent are one-time
only order, which must be performed and forgotten by the Agent. The Agent can
always reply negatively or with "not supported" message to inform that the 
operation is not available or has failed.

        Controller                Agent
            |                       |
            | RAN req               |
            +---------------------->|
            |                       |
            |                     Sanity
            |                     checks
            |                       |
            |<----------------------+
            |               RAN rep |

In the case of Handover, since it is assumed that such operation will be done on
X2 interface following the standards and propertary mechanism, a negative reply
from the source eNB informs the Controller that something did not work to begin
with, while a positive/negative reply from the Handover destination eNB informs
the controller that the X2 handover took place, but failed for some other 
reason.

This of course force tboth the source and destination eNBs to run an Agent 
instance.

        Controller                Agent                   Agent
            |                       |                       |
            | Handover req          |                       |
            +---------------------->|                       |
            |                       |                       |
            |                     Sanity                    |
            |                     checks                    |
            |                       |                       |
            |                  Failure or     n             |
            |                 not supported? -------------->|             
            |                       | y                     |
            |<----------------------+                   X2 handover
            | Handover negative rep |                       |
            |                       |                       |
            |<----------------------------------------------+
            |                Handover positive/negative rep |
            |                       |                       |


Kewin R.
